---
layout: post
comments: true
title: "Why I show channels that I am on at IRC?"
category: [english]
tags: [irc, english]
---

*Or why I am in umode -iI*

People ask this question from me a lot, often the same people as they don't
remember my answer.

I am in umode -iI which shows the channels that I am on so if you think
that I seem sane or interesting or whatever person and feel like you have
similar interests, you can simply `/whois Mikaela` to see the public
channels that I am on and join if you see anything interesting.

But what about the trolls? I haven't had many trolls following me around
and if that happens to you, you can simply send logs to network operators
and if they are good opers, they will take action. Even freenode staffers
have took action [which is a surprise.](https://github.com/Mikaela/freenode-harassement)

## Being umode -iI by yourself

Simply use `umode -iI` or if that is unknown command (as it's alias in most
of clients), `/mode YOURNICK -iI` and your channel list is visible to
people who `/whois` you.

It's not automatic though as networks set specific umodes on connect so you
will need to setup that as automatic command when connecting to network.
Some examples:

* HexChat: Open network list, select network and click `edit`, open tab
  `Connect commands`, click `add` and type `umode -iI`.
* WeeChat: `/set irc.server_default.command /mode $nick -iI`
* ZNC: `/msg *status loadmod perform` and `/msg *perform add mode %nick% -iI`
    * The same can also be done in webadmin and if you load perform for
      user level, adding the command `mode %nick% -iI` will set umode -iI
      on all networks.

*Update on 2015-04-13: add umode -I which is the InspIRCd way of hiding
all channels from whois depending on the modules loaded and IRCd config.*
