---
layout: post
comments: true
title: "Leaving IRCnet due to unwanted PMs and no way to filter them"
category: [english]
tags: [english, irc]
---

*IRCnet is dying network, one of the first ones, and it has no centralized
 management, so nothing new never happens there. Three big examples of
 missing functionality are TLS, Services and IRCv3.*

I left IRCnet today, because I have gotten enough unwanted PMs (Private
Messages). Mostly there was nothing bad in them, but I have long history
with IRC harassment so I get very anxious every time I receive a message
from sender I don't know or more importantly [have approved].

* [freenode-harassment] - freenode staff had zero interest to doing
  anything so I released the most troubling content.
* [ircassholes] - site where you can submit people who...

[have approved]:{% post_url 2015-04-02-umode+g %}
[freenode-harassment]:https://github.com/Mikaela/freenode-harassment
[ircassholes]:http://ircassholes.net/

The missing features should probably also be opened a little:

* [TLS (over IRC in this blog)] - Encrypted connection between you and the
  server.
* Services - NickServ, ChanServ etc. NickServ allows nicks to be registered
  so you can be sure that you talk to the person and not someone who
  stole their nick for imposting and doing bad things as you. ChanServ
  again allows channel registration and having access list so all ops
  can always be opped automatically and voiced people voiced etc.
* [IRCv3] - Modernizing the IRC protocol with many improvements, such as
  [away-notify] which makes server tell you every time someone on common
  channel goes /away or returns. I mention this, because it decreases
  bandwidth a lot as clients don't have to `/who`-poll to see which people
  are away. Away-notify is also faster.
* [Caller-ID] which I miss the most and which is why I primarily left
  this times. I am not explaining it again as I have done that twices. [1]
  [2].

[TLS (over IRC in this blog)]:{% post_url 2015-04-22-IRC-over-TLS %}
[IRCv3]:http://ircv3.net/
[Caller-ID]:{% post_url 2015-04-02-umode+g %}
[1]:{% post_url 2015-04-02-umode+g %}
[2]:{% post_url 2015-05-10-umode+g2 %}
